arXiv:2110.01831v1  [cs.AI]  5 Oct 2021
The Artiﬁcial Scientist:
Logicist, Emergentist, and Universalist
Approaches to Artiﬁcial General Intelligence⋆
Michael Timothy Bennett and Yoshihiro Maruyama
School of Computing, Australian National University, Canberra, Australia
michael.bennett@anu.edu.au and yoshihiro.maruyama@anu.edu.au
Abstract. We attempt to deﬁne what is necessary to construct an Arti-
ﬁcial Scientist, explore and evaluate several approaches to artiﬁcial gen-
eral intelligence (AGI) which may facilitate this, conclude that a uniﬁed
or hybrid approach is necessary and explore two theories that satisfy this
requirement to some degree.
Keywords: AGI · AI for Science · Science Robotics.
1
Introduction
Among the proposed means of verifying AGI, Goertzel’s 2014 survey [1] listed
The Artiﬁcial Scientist Test [2], which stipulated that AGI will have been achieved
when an artiﬁcial intelligence (AI) independently produces research suﬃcient to
win a Nobel prize. While there is a wealth of research on AGI in general, and
the automation of science has been explored to some extent [28], what would
be required to satisfy this test remains unclear. This paper attempts to clar-
ify what exactly is necessary to create an Artiﬁcial Scientist, and how this ﬁts
within existing approaches to AGI.
A scientist may be many things, but for our purposes a simple and unam-
biguous deﬁnition is best. The Royal Society’s motto, “nullius in verba”, serves
nicely. Translated as “take nobody’s word for it”, it emphasises that a scientist
establishes truth through experiment, not testimony. For this, our agent must
possess certain qualities.
2
What is Required of an Artiﬁcial Scientist?
This is not a list of every quality an Artiﬁcial Scientist ought to posses, but an
attempt to identify what is necessary.
Representation of Hypotheses: We’ll deﬁne a hypothesis as a statement
which has a truth value. A subset of such statements are readily testable, suit-
able subjects of scientiﬁc enquiry. We’ll not concern ourselves with the speciﬁc
language used to represent a hypothesis beyond stating that an Artiﬁcial Scien-
tist must possess a means of representing any particular hypothesis.
⋆This work was supported by JST (JPMJMS2033; JPMJPR17G9).
2
M. T. Bennett and Y. Maruyama
Inductive Inference: The Royal Society’s motto is an explicit rejection of
testimony as the basis of any claim. An Artiﬁcial Scientist must not rely on tes-
timony. Without testimony, what is true must be inferred through observation,
and so the ability to perform inductive inference seems necessary.
Deductive and Abductive Reasoning: Having inferred something of what is
an agent may transform this information, without speculation, through deductive
reasoning. Then, from what is, our agent could abduct all that may be true, but
uncertain. A testable hypothesis is one such thing, abducted from what is known.
It seems necessary then for our agent to engage in deductive and abductive
reasoning.
Causal Reasoning and Explainability: The purpose of an experiment is to
test a hypothesis, identifying cause and eﬀect [20]. Arguably this is desired in
order that humans may develop the technology to reproduce or prevent that
eﬀect at will. A provisionally accepted hypothesis explains phenomena. An ex-
planation is only useful if it can be understood by its intended audience, and so
a scientist must be able to communicate their hypotheses and the signiﬁcance
of their results in terms of what its audience values and understands. Mere in-
terpretability is insuﬃcient for more complex phenomena, as interpreting even
simple symbolic models of well understood subject matter requires a great deal
of technical expertise. Pushing forward the boundaries of scientiﬁc achievement
would produce models of such complexity as to be beyond the capabilities of
human interpretation. Fluency in natural language is desirable.
Evaluation of Hypotheses: A hypothesis must at least be falsiﬁable, positing
cause and eﬀect. If we assume computational resources are ﬁnite, then there
is a cost to consider in the search for hypotheses. The question then is which
hypotheses ought to be abducted. Hume’s Guillotine tells us one cannot derive
an ought from an is, and so we must give our agent an ought by which to judge
hypotheses. If one is to choose between several hypotheses, the truth of any one
of which would serve to explain observed phenomena, then it seems reasonable
to assert that one should start by testing the most plausible, the most likely to
be true. One must also consider what is gained by proving or disproving any
hypothesis. Yes, one may choose to investigate with scientiﬁc rigour problems of
no interest to anyone, but we would hesitate to claim this is accepted practice
for contemporary scientists. Hence we assert that an Artiﬁcial Scientist must
have a means of judging the plausibility of, and potential proﬁt in any line of
inquiry; a heuristic to inform its search of the space of possible hypotheses.
Experimental Design, Evaluation and Planning: To test a hypothesis one
must design an experiment that isolates and tests the hypothesised cause of
an eﬀect, ideally controlling for all other variables. Each experiment costs re-
sources, and the information gained should be evaluated in terms of expected
beneﬁt across hypotheses and future experiments. For example, a valuable ex-
periment may not entirely conﬁrm or disprove any one hypothesis, but may
The Artiﬁcial Scientist
3
provide information allowing an agent to more eﬃciently select future experi-
ments that will conﬁrm or disprove many high priority hypotheses. There are also
risks to consider in an experiment. An experiment with a high expected utility
may threaten the agent’s continued existence, and so some form of risk aversion
may be necessary (for example, when planning future experiments the geomet-
ric mean may be more appropriate than the arithmetic mean when computing
utility, because the utility of future experiments depends upon the outcome of
preceding experiments and their impact on available resources and capability).
An agent must identify what novel information would conﬁrm or disprove those
abducted hypotheses of the greatest expected utility. It must design experiments
that will convey said novel information and compare and plan experiments based
on opportunity cost and risk.
Enactivism: To perform experiments, an agent must possess a means of inter-
acting with the environment. The process of experimentation could be perceived
as enactive cognition [25], which posits cognition arises through the interaction
of an organism with its environment. It assumes cognition is embodied, embed-
ded to function within the conﬁnes of a speciﬁc environment, enacted through
what an organism does and, ﬁnally, extending into that environment to store
and retrieve information. All of this seems obviously necessary to conduct ex-
periments in the environment. We are not oﬀering an unqualiﬁed endorsement
of embodied cognition; after all it is arguable that even a laptop has a body
[16]. However, experimentation has certain physical requirements, and if one is
able to perform targeted experiments that obtain speciﬁc novel information and
isolate causal relations, the process of learning may proceed much faster than if
one is forced to wait until that same novel information is observed by chance.
3
Three Relevant Approaches to AGI
For the following we draw heavily upon Goertzel’s 2014 survey of the ﬁeld [1], de-
viating slightly to include recent developments and adjust the categories to suit
our purposes. To standardise the terms with which we compare these approaches
we employ a model of an arbitrary task, we treat the application of intelligence
as prediction, and so deﬁne each of these approaches as trying to predict the ap-
propriate response r given a situation s. For the sake of brevity appropriateness,
situation and response can be read using their common language deﬁnitions, but
more concrete deﬁnitions are available if the reader is curious [18,17].
Logicist: We’ll use the term logicist as a catch all for approaches that employ
symbolic knowledge representation and inductive logic programming for learn-
ing. A ﬁnite set of symbols are used to describe discrete environment states,
actions and so forth. Symbols may be joined by logical connectives to specify
statements that have a truth value within any given state. Degrees of belief in
the truth of a statement, probabilities, may be assigned to statements where
the environment is stochastic or partially observable. Statements may also be
4
M. T. Bennett and Y. Maruyama
employed as constraints to deﬁne what behaviour is permitted; the rules of a
task. An agent may infer such constraints from examples through what is called
inductive logic programming. As with Goertzel’s symbolic category [1] a logi-
cist approach typically subscribes to The Physical Symbol System Hypothesis
[23,19], meaning the abstract symbols it employed are assumed to be grounded
in hardware, but how is a matter left for implementation. We go a step further
and say that a logicist approach is perhaps better characterised as employing a
constant and unchanging vocabulary of symbols which are in some manner spec-
iﬁed by a human. Such an agent typically learns rules that determine whether
a chosen response r is correct in a situation s, from which a correct response r
may then be derived for a given a new situation s, allowing the agent to gener-
alise. This is as opposed to modelling r as a function of s directly. As a result
the choice of response is technically interpretable, but only in a limited sense,
because the meaning of symbols is dyadic, exact, and parasitic on the meanings
in the head of the human interpreter [24]. This is as opposed to emergent natural
language, in which meaning is ﬂuid and open to interpretation.
Emergentist: Emergentist approaches take as their premise that complex be-
haviour and what we call abstract symbol systems may emerge through sub-
symbolic processes, such as the interaction of neurons. This process is called
symbol emergence [10], and typically uses approaches such as latent dirichlet
allocation to cluster multi-modal sensorimotor stimuli into perceptual [26] or
sensorimotor [27] symbols with ﬂuid deﬁnitions akin to natural language. For
example, researchers created an agent able to associate the sound of the word
“cup” with the image and other characteristics of a cup as experienced by that
agent [11], but success in constructing more complex symbols such as “opera”
or “belief” remains elusive. Such an emergent symbol system could be used in
conjunction with a logicist approach, which could then learn the rules of a given
task in terms of these symbols. However, we extend this category to encompass
approaches that bypass the construction of an abstract symbol system entirely
in favor of directly modelling correct responses as a function of situations. For
example, a neural network performing image classiﬁcation. This is assumed to
implicitly model the rules that determine the correctness of responses, but as a
result is not as readily interpretable as logicist methods.
Universalist: In the context of an arbitrary task, an agent must map situa-
tions to responses. Such an agent could be conceived of as a program. A uni-
versalist approach assumes quite reasonably that for each environment (or task)
there exists at least one program that always chooses the best possible responses
(maximising reward), and so there must exist a program that maximises reward
across all environments (or tasks). To deﬁne this program Hutter [6] employed
a formalisation of Ockham’s Razor named Solomonoﬀ’s Universal Prior [14,15]
which assigns a weight to every program which reconstructs what the agent has
experienced of the environment thus far. The same model could be expressed by
programs of varying length, and so each program is evaluated by its Kolmogorov
complexity [13]; the smallest self extracting archive in a speciﬁc language. This
The Artiﬁcial Scientist
5
theoretical agent, named AIXI, has been proven to perform such that there is
no other agent which outperforms it in one environment that can also equal
its performance in all others (in other words, AIXI may be outperformed in a
speciﬁc environment by a more specialised agent employing inductive bias that
prevents it performing as well across at least some other environments). While
such an approach encompasses both logicist and emergentist approaches because
it searches the space of all programs, it is distinct in that it begins with a guar-
antee of optimal performance in terms of an arbitrary reward function. The
downside; SolomonoﬀInduction is incomputable. However, working approxima-
tions of AIXI have been constructed and this theoretical model provides useful
insights about the signiﬁcance of compression for intelligence.
4
Are Any of These Approaches Alone Suﬃcient?
In the following we discuss whether any of these is suﬃcient or not.
4.1
Universalist
For: By choosing the smallest self extracting archive as its model of the world,
AIXI is in eﬀect choosing from among possible hypotheses the most plausible
according to what it has experienced so far. Certainly AIXI is capable of infer-
ence, and in extracting predictions from its highly compressed representation of
the environment it seems reasonable to assume there must be something analo-
gous to deduction or abduction taking place. Finally and most importantly, by
ﬁnding the most compressed representation it must isolate causal relations [7].
Against: Assuming AIXI could be approximated well enough, behaviours such
as explainability must all somehow be speciﬁed by the reward function. Creat-
ing a function that guarantees such complex behaviour may not be any more
achievable than AGI in general.
4.2
Emergentist
For: The utility, or at least popularity, of emergentist methods such as deep
learning in narrow industrial applications seems almost indisputable. Models
such as GPT-3 demonstrate that even complex writing tasks are not beyond
reach with existing technology. While such models tend to be diﬃcult to in-
terpret, if they can be made to infer the ambiguous rules underlying natural
language then perhaps they can eventually be made explainable to a layman.
Certainly an emergentist method is easily implemented in a physical robot, be-
cause there is no abstraction required. If human language in all its inconsistency
is to be acquired by an AI, then emergentist methods seem a promising approach.
6
M. T. Bennett and Y. Maruyama
Against: An agent that mimics plausible explanations is of no more practical
use as a scientist than an agent that gives no explanation at all. We can only
trust explanations as far as we can interpret and verify them. Further, those
explanations may be closer to mimicry than reasonable hypotheses. For example,
the aforementioned GPT-3 seemed to acquire basic arithmetic, but as soon it
was presented with less common sums it started giving responses that were
wrong [22]. It appears to mimic arithmetic whilst having failed to grasp its
rules. This may also be why many popular emergentist methods require so much
data to learn in comparison to existing logistic or universalist methods; an agent
that only mimics must learn all correct responses by rote, while an agent that
understands what determines the correctness of all responses will be equipped to
identify the correct one in any situation [18]. All of these issues must be addressed
before emergentist methods alone might result in an Artiﬁcial Scientist.
4.3
Logicist
For: A hypothesis represented as a statement within a predeﬁned symbol sys-
tem is interpretable. Though SAT is NP-Hard, a suite of existing solvers allows
one to search the space of possible hypothesis fairly eﬃciently and with guaran-
teed optimality. Constraints are easily speciﬁed in comparison to other methods,
allowing one to tailor agent behaviour to better suite speciﬁc tasks such as ex-
perimental design and planning. Finally, not only is the technology to deduct,
abduct and infer with symbolic representations mature, but causal relations and
their computation are typically deﬁned in terms of symbols, and remain easily
veriﬁable after the fact.
Against: Abstract symbols must somehow connect to low level sensorimotor
stimuli [24]. Even if this is solved, a ﬁxed set of symbols chosen by a human may
be far from suitable to express explanations for which we require an Artiﬁcial
Scientist. Even if it were, such explanations are unlikely to be understood by
even the most qualiﬁed of humans [18,4]. What is less obvious about cognition is
why symbols are formed as they are. Which abstractions are best? This may be
the most signiﬁcant aspect of symbol emergence, that what emerges is part of the
solution to a task, expressing speciﬁcally those things of relevance in solving it
[18]. What of extending cognition into parts of the environment never conceived
of in the speciﬁcation of the symbol system? While logicist methods may surpass
emergentist in terms of interpretability, causal reasoning, data-eﬃciency and
our ability to control, emergentist methods remain the state of the art by a
large margin in terms of computer vision, natural language processing and so
on. More, the simple act of representing a hypothesis symbolically does not
mean it is the most accurate hypothesis explaining the data. Something akin to
the formalisation of Ockham’s Razor employed in universalist methods remains
necessary.
The Artiﬁcial Scientist
7
5
A Unifying Perspective
None of the above appear suﬃcient in isolation, at least in the near term, for the
purpose of constructing an Artiﬁcial Scientist. However, together they address
all characteristics we deemed necessary. A universalist approach reveals what
hypotheses are most plausible [6,9,8] and, by virtue of optimal lossless com-
pression, isolate causal relations [7]. A logicist approach facilitates interpretable
representation of hypotheses, planning, causal reasoning [21,20,3,5,4,17,18] and
the ability to tailor behaviour to our needs with ease. An emergentist approach
facilitates enactivism and the possibility of an emergent symbol system which is
eﬃcient [18,17], ﬂuid and comparable to natural language [11,10,27]. Two com-
plimentary bodies of research may provide a foundation for future work along
these lines; the formalisation of an arbitrary task and its solutions (named “The
Solutions to Any Task”) [18], and a formalisation inspired by the work of Kant
[5] (named “Kant’s Cognitive Architecture”). These approaches are similar but
based on diﬀerent premises, providing diﬀerent insights. We will now brieﬂy
summarise and compare them as they pertain to developing an Artiﬁcial Sci-
entist. Both attempt to infer a hypothesis which explains observed data, from
which correct responses to every situation may be abducted. Combined with a
SAT solver to decode responses, such an hypothesis qualiﬁes as lossless com-
pression. Finally, neither approach relies upon abstract symbols, learning from
sequences of sensory data in the case of Kant’s Cognitive Architecture, and a
set of sensorimotor sates in the case of The Solutions to Any Task.
Kant’s Cognitive Architecture: Taking Kant’s Critique of Pure Reason as
its inspiration, this approach asserts that there is no such thing as a speciﬁc
judgement. Subsequently every rule is universally quantiﬁed, “doomed to gen-
eralise” as the authors put it [4, p. 31]. Evans introduced notions of unity, a
form of inductive bias that speciﬁes which constraints are acceptable in terms
of spacial, temporal and causal relations, along with object permanence (static
unity). The solution is then made more general by choosing weak constraints.
Such notions are well suited to explain all sensory data in general terms, and
their implementation in the form of The Apperception Engine performs as one
would expect (extremely well). The resulting hypotheses are general, perhaps not
the most general, but enough that we can say that to some extent it accounts
for the universalist’s notion of plausibility (similar to Kolmogorov Complexity).
It is arguably embodied to some extent, being concerned with sensory data, but
does not account for the motor part of the sensorimotor system as is reﬂected
by its speciﬁc form of inductive bias.
The Solutions to Any Task: The notion of an arbitrary task attempts to
formalise anything we might call a task in terms of its solutions (the assumption
being that it must be possible to succeed or fail at a task to some degree, however
the task need not be computable). In the domain of possible solutions to a
given task there exist two extremes; an Intensional Solution (which may not
be unique) and an Extensional Solution (which is unique). Because the task is
8
M. T. Bennett and Y. Maruyama
deﬁned in terms of a set of sensorimotor states, situation and response pairs
rather than sequences of sensory data, the solution is more general, pertaining
to interactive sensorimotor control rather than just the prediction of sensory
input, with a much simpler inductive bias. The Intensional Solution is formed
of the weakest, least speciﬁc rules necessary and suﬃcient to reconstruct the
aforementioned set of sensorimotor states given the complete set of situations, a
formalisation of Ockham’s Razor which maximises the ability to generalise and
identiﬁes causal relations. The Extensional Solution is formed of the strongest,
representing perfect mimicry with no generalisation. The Intensional Solution
or a solution close to it represents intent, and is used to explain both symbol
emergence [18] and the modelling of intent in other agents [17]. The Intensional
Solution is incomputable in general, but computable if restricted to a speciﬁc
hardware language (a further inductive bias).
Comparison with Respect to Hypotheses: These two approaches are not
mutually exclusive, but complimentary. Given a subset of possible tasks per-
taining to speciﬁc types of sensory input, the inductive bias implemented in
the Apperception Engine will result in an Intensional Solution. For some other
tasks, it may result in something more intensional than extensional, but for the
remainder of tasks it may produce nothing useful (because it assumes “there is
no such thing as a speciﬁc judgement” [4, p. 31]). Consider a task to reproduce
a set of random binary sequences, drawn from a uniform distribution, given only
part of each sequence. The Apperception Engine would attempt to ﬁnd what
all sequences in the set share in common, and fail. There are no universal rules
by which the sequences may be reproduced. In contrast, the Intensional Solu-
tion to the task would specify each sequence in detail, eﬀectively rote-learning
the set (the Intensional and Extensional Solutions would be one and the same).
Ultimately, our Artiﬁcial Scientist should prefer hypotheses which are the most
plausible regardless of task, meaning the Intensional Solution based on Ock-
ham’s Razor rather than the more restrictive inductive bias towards the afore-
mentioned class of sensory sequences. However, a working implementation of the
Apperception Engine is publicly available. It is not an abstract promise of future
capability.
Comparison with Respect to Experimentation: The speciﬁcs of experi-
mental design are not addressed in either case. To illustrate why observational
data alone may be insuﬃcient, consider a task to either multiply two binary
numbers, or add them. There are now two correct responses when presented
with any two binary numbers. A set of situation-response pairs is observed, stip-
ulating one and only one correct response for each situation. A response here is
the result of either addition, or multiplication, the choice of which being made by
a fair coin ﬂip (uniformly distributed). This last part is important, as knowing
a situation is observed with addition, or with multiplication, would not convey
any useful information which would allow one to form two universally applicable
mutually exclusive rules based on aspects of the situation. The Apperception
Engine would fail because there is no single universal rule which is mutually
The Artiﬁcial Scientist
9
exclusive with all others (there are in fact two concurrent rules). In contrast, the
Intensional Solution would specify both correct rules, albeit restricted to speciﬁc
rote memorised situations (it would be more speciﬁc than necessary because it
would state that addition is necessary in some speciﬁc situations, and multipli-
cation in all others). To ﬁnd an Intensional Solution that properly describes the
task (as two separate concurrent and universally applicable rules) would require
the agent experiment, to test whether each rule holds in speciﬁc situations, or if
both apply in all situations. An Intensional Solution alone is insuﬃcient, because
the information necessary to conﬁrm that two mutually exclusive responses are
valid in any given situation is not present in the existing set of observations.
A hypothesis must be formed, abducted from the data, and tested to conﬁrm
whether the rules apply concurrently or in an alternating pattern. As illustrated
by the above task with two solutions, regardless of inductive bias experiment
remains necessary to guarantee the most data-eﬃcient mode of learning (to ﬁnd
the most correct hypothesis).
Comparison with Respect to Symbol Emergence and Explainability:
While Kant’s Cognitive Architecture does not attempt to address symbol emer-
gence, Evans has proposed the integration with subsymbolic methods such as
neural networks to ground abstract symbols [4], similar to the aforementioned
work on symbol emergence in robotics [11]. These could then be composed into
concepts by the Apperception Engine, albeit limited by the inductive bias to-
wards sensory input. This would also seem to imply a constant and unchanging
set of abstract symbols speciﬁed by a human (where the exact meaning of those
symbols is determined by learning algorithm), but it is a step in the direction
of an emergent symbol system. However, The Solutions to Any Task posits that
not all symbol systems are equal, that some are better suited to describe what is
relevant to a task than others. As such a symbol system is implicit in the solution
to a task, clustering sensorimotor stimuli in terms of what is relevant to success
in that task [18]. The distinction between any two symbols is then ﬂuid, depen-
dent upon context. This theory attempts to address not only the emergence of a
symbol system, but the modelling of intent in other agents, empathy [17], in aid
of constructing explanations in natural language tailored to what the audience
understands and considers important. To learn such a symbol system requires
that symbols are not learned separately from one’s model of the world, but as
part of it so that they have meaning (“signiﬁcance in terms of a goal”) beyond
their relation to other symbols. This is a fundamentally diﬀerent approach to
symbol emergence to the one proposed for the Apperception Engine, sharing
in more in common with the notion of concepts discussed in Kant’s Cognitive
Architecture, but perhaps requiring a fundamentally diﬀerent inductive bias to
that of the Apperception Engine.
References
1. Goertzel, B.: Artiﬁcial General Intelligence: Concept, State of the Art, and Future
Prospects. In: Journal of Artiﬁcial General Intelligence 5(1), pp. 1–48 (2014)
10
M. T. Bennett and Y. Maruyama
2. Adams, S. et al. Mapping the landscape of human-level artiﬁcial general intelligence.
In: AI Magazine 33(1), pp. 25–42 (2012).
3. Evans, R., Hern´andez-Orallo, J., Welbl, J., Kohli, P., Sergot, M.: Making sense of
sensory input. In: Artiﬁcial Intelligence 293, (2021)
4. Evans, R., Boˇsnjak, M., Buesing, L., Ellis, K., Pfau, D., Kohli, P., Sergot, M.:
Making Sense of Raw Input. In: Artiﬁcial Intelligence 299, (2021)
5. Evans, R.: Kant’s Cognitive Architecture. PhD Thesis, Imperial College London.
(2020)
6. Hutter, M.: Universal Artiﬁcial Intelligence: Sequential Decisions based on Algo-
rithmic Probability. Springer. (2005)
7. Budhathoki, K., Vreeken, J.: Origo: Causal Inference by Compression. In: Knowl-
edge and Information Systems 56(2), pp. 28–307 (2018)
8. Chaitin, G.: The Limits of Reason. In: Scientiﬁc American 294(3), pp. 74–81 (2006)
9. Legg, S.: Machine Super Intelligence. (2008)
10. Taniguchi, T. et al.: Symbol Emergence in Cognitive Developmental Systems: A
Survey. In: IEEE Transactions on Cognitive and Developmental Systems 11(4), pp.
494–516 (2019)
11. Taniguchi, T. et al.: Symbol Emergence in Robotics: A Survey. In: Advanced
Robotics 30(11-12), pp. 706–728 (2016)
12. Chollet, F.: On the Measure of Intelligence. arXiv: 1911.01547[cs.AI], (2019)
13. Kolmogorov, A. N.: On tables of random numbers. In: Sankhya: The Indian Journal
of Statistics A, pp. 369–376 (1963)
14. Solomonoﬀ, R. J.: A formal theory of inductive inference. Part I. In: Information
and Control 7(1), pp. 1–22 (1964)
15. Solomonoﬀ, R. J.: A formal theory of inductive inference. Part II. In: Information
and Control 7(2), pp. 224–254 (1964)
16. Wang, P. 2009. Embodiment: Does a Laptop Have a Body? In: Proceedings of
AGI-09, pp. 74–179 (2009)
17. Bennett, M. T., Maruyama, Y.: Philosophical Speciﬁcation of Empathetic Ethical
Artiﬁcial Intelligence. To appear in: IEEE Transactions on Cognitive and Develop-
mental Systems (2021)
18. Bennett, M. T.: Symbol Emergence and The Solutions to Any Task. 14th Confer-
ence on Artiﬁcial General Intelligence. (2021)
19. Nilsson, N. J.: The Physical Symbol System Hypothesis: Status and Prospects. In
50 Years of Artiﬁcial Intelligence. Springer. pp. 9–17 (2007)
20. Pearl, J.: Causality: Models, Reasoning and Inference. 2nd. USA: Cambridge Uni-
versity Press. (2009)
21. Pearl, J., Mackenzie, D.: The Book of Why: The New Science of Cause and Eﬀect.
1st. USA: BasicBooks, Inc. (2018)
22. Floridi, L., Chiriatti, M.: GPT-3: Its Nature, Scope, Limits, and Consequences. In:
Minds and Machines pp. 1–14 (2020)
23. Newell, A.: Physical Symbol Systems. In: Cog. Sci., pp. 135–183 (1980)
24. Harnad, S.: The Symbol Grounding Problem. (1990)
25. Thompson, E.: Mind in Life. In: Biology, Phenomenology and the Sciences of Mind
18 (2007)
26. Barsalou, L. W.: Perceptual Symbol Systems. In: Behavioral and Brain Sciences
22(4), pp. 577–660 (1999)
27. Mi lkowski, M.: Embodied Cognition. (2018)
28. King R. D. et al.: The Automation of Science. In: Science 324, pp. 85–89 (2009)
