arXiv:2110.01835v1  [cs.AI]  5 Oct 2021
Compression, The Fermi Paradox
and Artiﬁcial Super-Intelligence
Michael Timothy Bennett
School of Computing, Australian National University, Canberra, Australia
michael.bennett@anu.edu.au
Abstract. The following brieﬂy discusses possible diﬃculties in com-
munication with and control of an AGI (artiﬁcial general intelligence),
building upon an explanation of The Fermi Paradox and preceding work
on symbol emergence and artiﬁcial general intelligence. The latter sug-
gests that to infer what someone means, an agent constructs a rationale
for the observed behaviour of others. Communication then requires two
agents labour under similar compulsions and have similar experiences
(construct similar solutions to similar tasks). Any non-human intelligence
may construct solutions such that any rationale for their behaviour (and
thus the meaning of their signals) is outside the scope of what a hu-
man is inclined to notice or comprehend. Further, the more compressed
a signal, the closer it will appear to random noise. Another intelligence
may possess the ability to compress information to the extent that, to
us, their signals would appear indistinguishable from noise (an explana-
tion for The Fermi Paradox). To facilitate predictive accuracy an AGI
would tend to more compressed representations of the world, making
any rationale for their behaviour more diﬃcult to comprehend for the
same reason. Communication with and control of an AGI may subse-
quently necessitate not only human-like compulsions and experiences,
but imposed cognitive impairment.
Keywords: compression · symbol emergence · communication.
1
Introduction
When examining what problems may arise in the pursuit of AGI, it may be-
hoove us to consider explanations for The Fermi Paradox [18], the contradiction
between the apparent absence of extra-terrestrial life and its high probability.
After all, both involve communication with a nonhuman intelligence.
So, let us assume for the sake of argument that a non-human intelligence
exists in our region of space, emitting signals in a similar medium to us (such as
radio) neither attempting to contact nor hide from us; why might we have failed
to identify or interpret the meaning of such signals, and what does this suggest
for the pursuit of AGI?
2
M. T. Bennett
2
Symbolic Abstraction
First, let us consider what is necessary to infer the meaning of something. Natural
language is a means of encoding and transmitting certain information between
members of a species. What this information is, is debatable. A natural language
model such as GPT-3 is trained only on text data [2], implicitly endorsing the
idea that meaning is just relations between words. While GPT-3 is capable of
learning correlations in syntax to the extent that it can plausibly mimic human
writing, it lacks any of the other sensorimotor information we might typically
associate with words. Attempts to train models on multimodal sensorimotor data
have yielded some success, with agents able to associate the sensory information
of an object such as a cup with the signals that represent it [7,8,9]. Yet abstract
notions such as “politics” or “ex-wife” would seem to require more than mere
clustering of sensorimotor information.
One theory [10] (the mirror symbol hypothesis), posits that the informa-
tion encoded in natural language is not just sensorimotor stimuli but intent.
Drawing on ideas from embodied and enactive cognition [17,16], an organism’s
environment, sensors and actuators, the compulsions an organism labours under
(such as hunger and pain) and so forth together specify an arbitrary task. Util-
ity is replaced by a statement (a logical expression) characterizing sets of more
or less desirable sensorimotor states (including the state of memory) - repre-
senting histories or situations from which plans and subsequently subgoals may
be abducted. It is written in a physically implementable language such as ar-
rangements of transistors or neurons, necessary and suﬃcient to reconstruct past
experience given appropriate stimuli. If treated as a constraint to be satisﬁed,
a solution or any subgoal derived thereof, expresses intent. Given an ostensive
deﬁnition of a task (examples of successful task completion) there may be many
apparently valid solutions, which vary in how well they generalise to unfore-
seen situations. The weaker and more general the solution, the closer it is to an
idealised notion of intent (called an intensional solution).
In order to predict the intent of other agents, one agent assumes others con-
ceive of the world as they do. It asks what subgoals might motivate the behaviour
of other agents, given they are assumed to pursue a similar solution in general.
It constructs a rationale for speciﬁc observed behaviour, to explain what an-
other agent means to do (a subgoal, the pursuit of which would explain the
observed behaviour). Subsequently, in order for communication to be possible
two agents must possess approximately the same solution. Not only must they
experience similar stimuli with which to construct symbolic abstractions, but
imbue that stimuli with similar signiﬁcance in terms of satisfying their com-
pulsions. The solutions they construct then facilitate encoding and decoding of
signals interpretable by both agents [11]. Any information not relevant to satis-
fying compulsions is not only meaningless but may be entirely ignored, which is
consistent with observations of human behaviour [6,5] (i.e. one may be unable
to perceive something in the stream of sensorimotor stimuli because it is ﬁltered
out).
Compression, The Fermi Paradox and Artiﬁcial Super-Intelligence
3
This raises a few issues. The scope of a task is arbitrary, and so living as
a typical human may be framed as such. Any nonhuman intelligence may face
an entirely diﬀerent task, to which they construct an entirely diﬀerent solution.
The diﬃculty this introduces is not only failure to understand what is meant,
as in human language translation. Given two diﬀerent solutions to two diﬀerent
tasks, stimuli may be imbued with either the same meaning, diﬀerent meaning,
or no meaning at all by one of those solutions (meaningful to one but not the
other). The latter is particularly interesting, because such signals may not be
recognised as intelligent behaviour (i.e. appear insane or mindless) or may per-
haps be unnoticeable (i.e. the solution informs attention). In short, we may not
realise something is a signal because what it conveys falls outside the scope of
what humans are predisposed to notice or consider meaningful. While by deﬁ-
nition we would be disinterested in such information, it may imply something
which we would be consider meaningful (e.g. destroying the humans because of
incomprehensible reasons).
3
Compression
Allowing for the above, one may still mechanically assess information content
and decode signals [1], to glean something of potential meanings by correlation,
even if they are incomprehensible. However, the same information can be repre-
sented in many diﬀerent ways, compressed to diﬀerent extents. As the volume of
digital information exchanged and stored by humans each day has increased, so
has the utility of compression. Streaming services such as Youtube make exten-
sive use of compression to reduce the cost of transmission and storage. Another
intelligence may also wish to reduce the cost of transmission and storage by
employing the most eﬀective compression they possess. Taking into account the
decoder which reconstructs a signal, the greatest extent to which a signal may
be compressed is its Kolmogorov Complexity [12]; the length of the smallest self
extracting archive capable of reproducing that signal. Such a compressed sig-
nal contains no discernible pattern of which we might take advantage to more
eﬃciently represent the signal without discarding information. Uniformly dis-
tributed, random noise is also not compressible. There is no pattern. A highly
compressed signal may appear to be nothing more than random noise to any ob-
server lacking the appropriate decoder. Any advanced intelligence may compress
information to the extent that we mistake their signals for noise [3].
The ability to generalise is closely related to compression [14,15], with more
compressed representations yielding better accuracy [13] for the same reason that
there is only one straight line interpolating any two points, but inﬁnitely many
polynomials of higher degree. As stated earlier, solutions to a task may vary in
how well they generalise, with an intensional solution being the most general. A
super-intelligent AGI would construct such a solution [10], which is likely to be
among the most compressed [13], meaning any rationale for its decisions may be
uninterpretable for the same reason a highly compressed signal is. Subsequently
the onus is on the more intelligent agent to communicate in terms that the a less
4
M. T. Bennett
intelligent agent comprehends. Given human-like sensors, actuators, compulsions
and so forth, situated in a human environment, an AGI may construct a solution
similar enough to humans to facilitate communication. However, to guarantee
interpretability and control of an AGI may require restricting how it constructs
solutions such that it is, on some level, cognitively impaired [4].
References
1. MacKay, D. J. C.: Information Theory, Inference and Learning Algorithms. Cam-
bridge University Press. (2003)
2. Floridi, L., Chiriatti, M.: GPT-3: Its Nature, Scope, Limits, and Consequences. In:
Minds and Machines pp. 1–14 (2020)
3. Gurzadyan, A.V., Allahverdyan, A. E.: Non-Random Structures in Universal Com-
pression and The Fermi Paradox. The European Physical Journal Plus 131(2),
(2016)
4. Trazzi, M., Yampolskiy, R.V.: Building Safer AGI by Introducing Artiﬁcial Stu-
pidity. ArXiv, abs/1808.03644. (2018)
5. Flowers, J.H., Warner, J.L., Polansky, M.L.: Response and Encoding Factors in
“Ignoring” Irrelevant Information. Memory and Cognition 7, pp. 86–94 (1979)
6. Zanto, T. P., Gazzaley, A.: Neural Suppression of Irrelevant Information Underlies
Optimal Working Memory Performance. Journal of Neuroscience 29(10). pp. 3059–
3066 (2009)
7. Taniguchi, T. et al.: Symbol Emergence in Cognitive Developmental Systems: A
Survey. In: IEEE Transactions on Cognitive and Developmental Systems 11(4), pp.
494–516 (2019)
8. Taniguchi, T. et al.: Symbol Emergence in Robotics: A Survey. In: Advanced
Robotics 30(11-12), pp. 706–728 (2016)
9. Ramesh, A. et al.: DALL-E: Creating Images From Text. OpenAI (2021)
10. Bennett, M. T.: Symbol Emergence and The Solutions to Any Task. 14th Confer-
ence on Artiﬁcial General Intelligence (2021)
11. Bennett, M. T., Maruyama, Y.: Philosophical Speciﬁcation of Empathetic Ethical
Artiﬁcial Intelligence. To appear in: IEEE Transactions on Cognitive and Devel-
opmental Systems (2021)
12. Kolmogorov, A. N.: On tables of random numbers. In: Sankhya: The Indian Journal
of Statistics A, pp. 369–376 (1963)
13. Hutter, M.: Universal Artiﬁcial Intelligence: Sequential Decisions based on Algo-
rithmic Probability. Springer. (2005)
14. Solomonoﬀ, R. J.: A formal theory of inductive inference. Part I. In: Information
and Control 7(1), pp. 1–22 (1964)
15. Solomonoﬀ, R. J.: A formal theory of inductive inference. Part II. In: Information
and Control 7(2), pp. 224–254 (1964)
16. Thompson, E.: Mind in Life. In: Biology, Phenomenology and the Sciences of Mind
18 (2007)
17. Mi lkowski, M.: Embodied Cognition. (2018)
18. Verendel, V., H¨aggstr¨om, O.: Fermi’s Paradox, Extraterrestrial Life and The Future
of Humanity: A Bayesian analysis. International Journal of Astrobiology 16(1), pp.
14–18 (2017)
